NOTE: UP TO DATE AS OF 2012-05-22 2019Z

The control bus uses RS422 at 500k baud.  Communication between nodes is
unidirectional; the UART RX is connect to the node above, and the UART TX
is connected to the node below.  At the end of the chain, the data is
physically looped back, through a separate transceiver chain which does not
interact with the CPUs on the nodes it transits through; this connects the
ring back to the UART RX on the master controller, and forms a
unidirectional ring network.

The control bus protocol is driven entirely by transmission of data packets
from the master controller.  No asynchronous communication from the control
nodes is allowed.

The packet format is:

byte 0:
  bits 4-7: target number
  bits 0-3: packet length (excluding byte 0)
byte 1:
  bits 0-5: transfer memory offset
bytes 2+:
  data bytes

Each node retransmits the packet; the master controller should get the same
number of bytes back that it sent.  The target number in byte 0 is
decremented by each node; a node only processes the packet locally (as
opposed to just forwarding) if it receives a packet with a target number of
0.

On a packet bearing data, the data sent by the master controller is written
to the target's m_to_s[] array, and the values sent down the ring are read
from the target's s_to_m[] array.  All transactions do both a write and a
read.

Because the target number is decremented on each transit, sending a packet
to target 0 will cause a response to come back addressed to target 16-n,
where N is the number of control nodes in the chain (and thus
retransmissions of the packet).  In this way, the number of nodes can be
rung out with a probe packet.  Once this is known, the data in every
returned packet can be identified clearly by the target number (inverted)
and offset.

In the event of a corrupt packet or frame slip, the system can recover by
periodically inserting a string of 16 bytes of 0 to resynchronize all of
the receivers.  This can cause corruption of the m_to_s[] array if a node
thought that a write was in progress, and/or junk data returned to the
master controller.  For this reason, it's recommended that every I/O cycle
rewrite all output values, and that the resynchronization happen relatively
often, so that the control system can heal before the physical plant
responds radically to an erroneous data.
